hello and welcome back to another video
in this video I will present what the
PDT rule is and how you can avoid it you
have probably heard about a rule
prohibiting traders today trade more
than three times in a given period it
can be very annoying to not be able to
capitalize on a great setup because you
already use your three-day trades on
something else besides missing great
setups the PDT rule can actually be
dangerous because if you already used
your three trades you can actually be
stuck in a position without being able
to exit it because you already perform
three-day trades in the past days
therefore I want to present to you what
exactly the PDT or pattern day trader
rule is and how you can avoid it so that
you can day trade as often as you want
to but before we get into how to avoid
the PD duel I will present what the
pattern day trader or PDT even is you
can only be classified as a pattern day
trader if you do all of the following
things the first thing is you have to
have a margin account if you have a cash
account the pattern day trader rule does
not apply to you but more on that a
little bit later in this video besides
having a margin account you also need to
day trade at least four times within
five business days so if you day trade
at least four times within five business
days in a margin account you will be
flagged as a pattern day trader getting
flagged as a pattern day trader isn't
necessarily something bad the bad thing
is people that got flagged as a pre DT
have to have at least 20
$35,000 in their account so if you
wanted a trade more than three times
within five business days in a margin
account you will need to have at least
$25,000 in your account
but if you have less than $25,000 he
will only be able to trade three times
within five business days so everyone
with a smaller account is restricted to
three day trades per five business days
before I get into how you actually can
avoid this rule I just want to present
what exactly the day trade even is it is
very important to understand this
definition of a day trade a day trade is
the act of opening and closing trades in
one day so it does not matter if you buy
a security and sell it later in the day
or if you sell a security and buy it
back later
the PDT rule does apply to buying and
short selling averaging in and out of
trades which is opening and closing
partial positions does not count as
multiple trades so if you open a 1,000
share position in three steps that does
not count as one or three day trades the
same goes for closing if you close a
position with three orders or more it
still won't count as a day trade but be
aware that this is only the case if the
opening trade wasn't on the same day as
the closing trade if you open a trade
and close it with three separate orders
the same day it will count as three day
trades so if you're day trading I don't
recommend scaling out of trades because
every separate closing Warrior will
count as another date
trade there's one last thing that I want
to touch before we get into how you can
avoid the PDT rule that thing is why
does the PDT rule even exist financial
regulators like FINRA initially created
this rule they created the rule to
protect investors from greater risks
financial regulators like FINRA think
that day trading is more risky than
investing or other forms of longer term
training therefore they want to protect
investors with smaller accounts from the
greater risks of day trading
furthermore the PDT rule actually fights
over trading which is a huge mistake
especially amongst new communists to the
stock market however many people aren't
satisfied with the Pitti rule and
therefore a lot of people try to avoid
it so let's get into some different
methods to avoid the PDT rule but the
first and most obvious way to avoid the
PDT rule is depositing more than $25,000
to your broker account but as you're
watching this this probably isn't an
option for you the second way to avoid
the PDT rule is using cash accounts the
PDT rule only applies to margin account
so if you have a cash account the PDT
rule won't apply to you
however cash accounts have some other
limitations for instance you have a
reduced buying power in cash accounts in
addition to that you can't short sell or
trade naked positions like short calls
or short puts in cash accounts and
besides that the cash that you trade
with takes time to settle so you can't
immediately use the
cash that you traded with yesterday
that's the next day the cash settlement
time depends on the asset class that you
trade in the third method to avoid the
PDT rule is a changing broker there are
some brokers out there that don't follow
the PDT rule so if you set up an account
with those brokers you can de try it as
often as you want to one example of a
broker that does not follow the PT l--
is shir trader but note if a broker does
not follow the PDT rule they aren't
regulated by financial regulators like
FINRA so if that's the case they will
probably be regulated by some sketchy
regulator that's based in Bahamas or
Cyprus or another country like that
regulations from these countries are
near as trustworthy as regulations from
trustworthy regulators like FINRA or the
SEC another way to avoid the PT l-- is
opening more than one broker account you
will have three day trades per broker
account that you have so if you have two
broker accounts that's already six day
trades instead of only three day trades
so the more broker accounts you open the
more day trades you will have still I
wouldn't necessarily recommend opening
ten different broker accounts
you probably shouldn't open more than
three separate broker accounts the fifth
way toward the PDT rule is trading other
assets the PDT rule does not apply to
all assets it applies to stocks and also
to options trading but if you trade
other assets like forex or futures the
PDT rule won't apply the sixth way is
one of my favorite ones
and that's holding overnight if you
enter a position just before the market
close and exit it right after the market
open the next day it won't be considered
a day trade because you didn't close and
open the position on the same day so
even though you only held the position
for a very short time your day trade
counter won't go up but this will of
course require some adjustments to your
trading style the final way to avoid the
PDT rule is quite similar to the sixth
way and it's swing trading so instead of
holding for a few minutes you could also
try to hold for a few days two weeks but
once again this will require some
adjusting to your training strategy but
if you're just starting out you could
also just learn how to swing trade
instead of learning how to day trade
swing trading can be just as profitable
as day trading now let us move on to the
conclusion as you probably know there
are mixed opinions about the PDT rule
some hate it and some like it the PDT
rule actually can have some benefits but
obviously it has some disadvantages as
well on the one side it can prevent
overtraining
which like I said earlier is a huge
mistake
amongst newcomers however other times it
actually can be harmful for instance if
you're stuck in a position and can't cut
losses because of the PDT rule that's
not a good situation to be in
therefore it's so important to always
keep track of your day trades it can be
very annoying - disastrous to be stuck
in a position some broker platforms have
a day trade counter for this
and never enter trade if you don't have
the possibility to get out because of
the PDT rule anything can happen in any
trade and if you're not able to exit the
trade and cough losses that's just
disastrous so if you already made 3 day
trades in the last 5 days don't enter
the next trade just wait but frankly if
you have under $25,000 in your account
you aren't crazy experienced yet and
that's totally fine but these
regulations do only exist to protect you
always remember that there are some ways
to avoid the PDT rule but all of these
ways have some disadvantages as well in
my opinion three-day trades is good
enough in the beginning it allows you to
focus on the best setups only which is a
very important lesson that most
newcomers still have to learn
furthermore it prevents people from over
trading one huge problem amongst
beginning traders is the lack of
education and experience education in
trading is key to success sadly most new
traders skip this very essential part of
education and that's also why rules like
the PDT rule exist
they only exists to protect these people
from harming themselves
also remember you don't have to date
right all the time you could also trade
in other timeframes for instance you
could hold positions for a few days by
swing trading but no matter what you do
remember to educate yourself and know
what you're doing before you risk your
hard earned money thank you so much for
watching I truly hope you enjoyed this
video let me know in the comment section
below what do you think about the PDT
rule do you hate it what do you think
it's actually not as bad as most people
say as always if you enjoyed this video
make sure to LIKE and subscribe once
again thanks for watching